#summary Aspen serving Django
#labels Featured

== Links ==

|| *download* || http://aspen-commons.googlecode.com/files/stephane.aspen-0.7.tgz ||
|| *screencast* || http://tech.whit537.org/2006/12/screencast-django-aspen-stephane.html ||


= Introduction =

Stephane is a tiny shim that makes it trivially easy to serve [http://www.djangoproject.com/ Django] apps with [http://www.zetadev.com/software/aspen/ Aspen].

== Installation ==

{{{
  $ mkdir ~/www.example.com
  $ cd ~/www.example.com
  $ django-admin.py startproject <foo>
  $ svn export http://aspen-commons.googlecode.com/svn/stephane/trunk/__
}}}

`~/www.example.com` will be on Django's `PYTHONPATH`, so you can include any third-party modules right next to your project package. Here's what your filesystem will look like:

{{{
~/www.example.com/             <= website root; added to PYTHONPATH
~/www.example.com/__/          <= Stephane (an Aspen "magic directory")
~/www.example.com/<foo>/       <= your Django project
~/www.example.com/geopy/       <= any other modules you need
~/www.example.com/README.aspen <= automatically added by Aspen
}}}

== Usage ==

Now [http://www.zetadev.com/software/aspen/0.7/doc/html/installation.html install Aspen], and:

{{{
  $ cd ~/www.example.com
  $ export DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE=<foo>.settings
  $ aspen
  launching child process
  starting child server
  aspen starting on ('0.0.0.0', 8080)
}}}

Congratulations! Aspen is running in [http://www.zetadev.com/software/aspen/0.7/doc/html/environment.html development mode], and will restart whenever your project's Python source files change.


= Details =

Stephane is trivial: 10 lines in 2 files. It is [http://www.zetadev.com/software/aspen/0.7/doc/html/tutorial-learned.html an Aspen magic directory] pre-configured for Django. It includes a module called `grappelli` that adds the Aspen website root to `PYTHONPATH`, and configures Django using the DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE environment variable. It then tells Aspen to use Django's WSGI handler to serve all requests for this website.

If DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE is unset, then it defaults to `stephane.settings`. You are also free to set this directly in [http://aspen-commons.googlecode.com/svn/stephane/trunk/__/lib/python2.x/grappelli.py __/lib/python2.x/grappelli.py]

Please see [http://aspen-commons.googlecode.com/svn/stephane/trunk/ the Stephane source] and [http://www.zetadev.com/software/aspen/0.7/doc/html/extending.html the "Extending Aspen" documentation] for a detailed understanding of how Stephane works.

Stephane Grappelli was Django Reinhardt's long-time sideman and violin player.